---
layout: misc
title: Join
---

We are always looking for extremely bright, motivated, and passionate individuals to join our research group. Typically, researchers who join our group have a strong interest in design and expertise/experience in one or more of the following: design methodology, computational analyses (ML, agent based modeling, optimization), prototyping (physical/digital), psychology, and/or neuroscience. We are seeking talented researchers to expand our existing ideas and drive new research areas we have yet to explore. Desirable backgrounds include Mechanical Engineering, Human Computer Interaction, and Cognitive Science/Neuroscience. 

If you are interested in research, please send me an email (kosa<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@berkeley.edu). I highly suggest including the following information to maximize the likelihood that I respond to your initial message:

<ul>
	<li>Include “[KGL-Research, Getting Involved]” in the subject line of your email. </li>

	<li>Be as specific as possible about a research idea you have/would like to work on that relates to what my group does. If your email appears copy pasted/generic it will not receive a response.</li>
	
	<li>Indicate the position you are seeking in the lab and whether you are seeking a funded or unfunded position.</li>
</ul>

## Graduate students

Openings for graudate student positions for AY21-22 will be posted here.

## Postdoctoral fellows

Please send (1) cover letter that includes the names and contacts for three references and a short statement of research interests, (2) a current CV, and (3) copies of 1-3 representative papers to kosa<span style="display:none">obfuscate</span>@berkeley.edu

## Undergraduate researchers

If you are a Berkeley undergraduate student please follow the directions above regarding reaching out to me via email. It is a good idea to have a look at some of our research papers and potentially talk to a graduate student in the lab before reaching out. 
