---
layout: post
title: Congratulations to Yakira Mirabito for completing her PhD!
author: Co-Design Lab
---

Yakira gave her PhD seminar talk titled "An Exploration of the Sociotechnical Factors Impacting Design Decisions" (abstract below) and and will be joining MIT as a postdoctoral fellow through their [Engineering Excellence postdoctoral program!](https://engineering.mit.edu/the-mit-postdoctoral-fellowship-program-for-engineering-excellence/) 

ABSTRACT: 
Errors in design decision making can manifest in many ways; from small misalignments in product affordances, to large scale system failures. In order to improve current design processes, this research aims to better understand the explicit and implicit sociotechnical factors impacting design decisions and associated outcomes. The main research objectives were to (1) investigate the behaviors and cognition influencing decision-making processes, (2) examine the effectiveness of design rationale documentation practices, and (3) analyze the influence of power dynamics on design reviews. To comprehensively assess convergent design decisions, quantitative methods (controlled experiments and computational modeling) and qualitative methods (document analysis, observations, and interviews) were utilized. This mixed-methods approach enabled a thorough investigation of convergent design decisions among students and industry professionals by examining the inputs (information), processes (evaluation and selection), and outcomes (implementation) of these decisions. The results identified decision-making strategies that enhanced design outcomes, developed a framework to represent design rationale more effectively, and articulated the influence of power dynamics in industry design reviews. These contributions provide a transformative approach that empowers engineers to build more innovative and safer products, leveraging design methods and tools informed by a deeper understanding of sociotechnical factors’ influence on design decisions.
